Document lambdas (#5300)
carbon-language/carbon-lang: docs/design/lambdas.md

SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0 WITH LLVM-exception
-->

<!-- toc -->

## Table of contents

-   [Syntax Overview](#syntax-overview)
    -   [Return type](#return-type)
        -   [Return expression](#return-expression)
        -   [Explicit return type](#explicit-return-type)
        -   [No return](#no-return)
    -   [Implicit parameters in square brackets](#implicit-parameters-in-square-brackets)
    -   [Parameters](#parameters)
    -   [Syntax defined](#syntax-defined)
-   [Positional parameters](#positional-parameters)
    -   [Positional parameter restrictions](#positional-parameter-restrictions)
-   [Captures](#captures)
    -   [Capture modes](#capture-modes)
    -   [Default capture mode](#default-capture-mode)
-   [Function fields in lambdas](#function-fields-in-lambdas)
-   [Copy semantics](#copy-semantics)
-   [Self and recursion](#self-and-recursion)
-   [Alternatives considered](#alternatives-considered)

<!-- tocstop -->

## Syntax Overview

One goal of Carbon's lambda syntax is to have continuity between lambdas and
function declarations. Below are some example declarations:

Implicit return types:

```carbon
// In a variable:

> let lambda: auto = fn => T.Make();

Reviewer: This document uses `fn =>` here and `fn ->` below, I assume one of those isn't correct?

Reviewer: Oh, never mind! I see this gets explained.

(parentheses). They are variadic by design, meaning an unbounded number of
arguments can be passed to any function that lacks an explicit parameter list.
Only the parameters that are named in the body will be read from, meaning the
highest named parameter denotes the minimum number of arguments required by the
function. The lambda body is free to omit lower-numbered parameters (ex:
`fn { Print($10); }`).

This syntax was inpsired by Swift's
[Shorthand Argument Names](https://docs.swift.org/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-language/closures/#Shorthand-Argument-Names).

```carbon
// A lambda that takes two positional parameters being used as a comparator
Sort(my_list, fn => $0.val < $1.val);
// In Swift: { $0.val < $1.val }
```

### Positional parameter restrictions

Lambdas with positional parameters have the restriction that they can only be
used in a context where there is exactly one enclosing function or lambda that
has no explicit parameter list. For example:

```carbon
fn Foo1 {
  // ❌ Invalid: Foo1 is already using positional parameters
  let lambda: auto = fn => $0 < $1
}

fn Foo2 {
  my_list.Sort(

>     fn => $0 < $1  // ❌ Invalid: Foo2 is already using positional parameters

Reviewer 2: Sorry I didn't catch this in my earlier passes, but Carbon requires that comments be on their own line.
```suggestion
    // ❌ Invalid: Foo2 is already using positional parameters
    fn => $0 < $1
```

  );
}

fn Foo3() {
  my_list.Sort(

>     fn => $0 < $1  // ✅ Valid: Foo3 has explicit parameters

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    // ✅ Valid: Foo3 has explicit parameters
    fn => $0 < $1
```

    return (fn => $0 < $1)(x, y);
  };
}
```

## Captures

Captures in Carbon mirror the non-init captures of C++. A capture declaration
consists of a capture mode (for `var` captures) followed by the name of a
binding from the enclosing scope, and makes that identifier available in the
inner function body. The lifetime of a capture is the lifetime of the function
in which it exists. For example...

```carbon
fn Foo() {
  let handle: Handle = Handle.Get();
  var thread: Thread = Thread.Make(fn [var handle] { handle.Process(); });
  thread.Join();
}
```

```carbon
fn Foo() {
  let handle: Handle = Handle.Get();
  fn MyThread[handle]() { handle.Process(); }
  var thread: Thread = Thread.Make(MyThread);
  thread.Join();
}
```

### Capture modes

Lambdas can capture variables from their surrounding scope using `let` or `var`,
just like regular bindings.

Capture modes can be used as
[default capture mode specifiers](#default-capture-mode) or for explicit
captures as shown in the example code below.

```carbon
fn Example() {
  var a: i32 = 0;
  var b: i32 = 0;

let lambda: auto = fn [a, var b] {
  a += 1;  // ❌ Invalid: by-value captures are immutable (default `let`)

>   b += 1;  // ✅ Valid: `b` is a mutable copy (captured with `var`)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  // ❌ Invalid: by-value captures are immutable (default `let`)
  a += 1;
  // ✅ Valid: `b` is a mutable copy (captured with `var`)
  b += 1;
```

};

  lambda();
}
```

```carbon
fn Example {
  fn Invalid() -> auto {
    var s: String = "Hello world";
    return fn [s]() => s;
  }

  // ❌ Invalid: returned lambda references `s` which is no longer alive
  // when the lambda is invoked.
  Print(Invalid()());
}
```

Note: If a function object F has mutable state, either because it has a
by-object capture or because it has a by-object function field, then a call to F
should require the callee to be a reference expression rather than a value
expression. We need a mutable handle to the function in order to be able to
mutate its mutable state.

### Default capture mode

By default, there is no capturing in lambdas. The lack of any square brackets is
the same as an empty pair of square brackets. Users can opt into capturing
behavior. This is done either by way of individual explicit captures, or more
succinctly by way of a default capture mode. The default capture mode roughly
mirrors the syntax `[=]` and `[&]` capture modes from C++ by being the first
thing to appear in the square brackets.

```carbon
fn Foo1() {
  let handle: Handle = Handle.Get();
  fn MyThread[var]() {

>     handle.Process();  // `handle` is captured by-object due to the default capture
>                        // mode specifier of `var`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    // `handle` is captured by-object due to the default capture
    // mode specifier of `var`
    handle.Process();
```

  }
  var thread: Thread = Thread.Make(MyThread);
  thread.Join();
}

fn Foo2() {
  let handle: Handle = Handle.Get();
  fn MyThread[let]() {

>     handle.Process();  // `handle` is captured by-value due to the default capture
>                        // mode specifier of `let`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    // `handle` is captured by-value due to the default capture
    // mode specifier of `let`
    handle.Process();
```

captures, or more succinctly by way of a default capture mode. The default
capture mode roughly mirrors the syntax `[=]` and `[&]` capture modes from C++
by being the first thing to appear in the square brackets.

```carbon
fn Foo1() {
  let handle: Handle = Handle.Get();
  fn MyThread[var]() {
    handle.Process();  // `handle` is captured by-object due to the default capture
                       // mode specifier of `var`
  }
  var thread: Thread = Thread.Make(MyThread);
  thread.Join();
}

fn Foo2() {
  let handle: Handle = Handle.Get();
  fn MyThread[let]() {
    handle.Process();  // `handle` is captured by-value due to the default capture
                       // mode specifier of `let`
  }
  var thread: Thread = Thread.Make(MyThread);
  thread.Join();
}
```

## Function Fields in Lambdas

Function fields in lambdas mirror the behavior of init captures in C++. A
function field definition consists of an irrefutable pattern, `=`, and an
initializer. It matches the pattern with the initializer when the lambda 
definition is evaluated. The bindings in the pattern have the same lifetime as
the function, and their scope extends to the end of the function body.

> To prevent ambiguities, function fields can only exist on functions where the
> definition is attached to the declaration. This means they are supported on
> lambdas (which always exist in an expression context) and they are supported on
> function declarations that are immediately defined inside the body of another
> function (which is in a statement context), but they are not supported on
> forward-declared functions nor are they supported as class members where
> `self: Self` is permitted.
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

# Lambdas

<!--
Part of the Carbon Language project, under the Apache License v2.0 with LLVM
Exceptions. See /LICENSE for license information.
SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0 WITH LLVM-exception
-->

<!-- toc -->

## Table of contents

-   [Syntax Overview](#syntax-overview)
    -   [Syntax Defined](#syntax-defined)
-   [Introducer](#introducer)
-   [Positional Parameters](#positional-parameters)
    -   [Positional Parameter Restrictions](#positional-parameter-restrictions)
-   [Function Captures](#function-captures)
    -   [Capture Modes](#capture-modes)
    -   [Default Capture Mode](#default-capture-mode)
-   [Function Fields](#function-fields)
-   [Copy Semantics](#copy-semantics)
-   [Self and Recursion](#self-and-recursion)

<!-- tocstop -->

## Syntax Overview

> **Proposal**: A largely continuous syntax between lambdas and function

Reviewer 2: This is no longer a proposal. Please rephrase this as a sentence. Perhaps something like:

```suggestion
One goal of Carbon's lambda syntax is to have continuity between lambdas and function
```

declarations.

> At a high level, lambdas and function declarations will look like the following.

Reviewer 2: Since this is no longer a proposal, it makes sense to switch from future tense to present tense. We can also connect to the previous paragraph.
```suggestion
declarations. This can be seen in these examples:
```

```carbon
// In a variable:
let lambda: auto = fn => T.Make();
// Equivalent in C++23:
// const auto lambda = [] { return T::Make(); };

> // In a function call:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
// As an argument to a function call:
```

Please make this change below globally as well.

Foo(10, 20, fn => T.Make());
// Equivalent in C++23:
// Foo(10, 20, [] { return T::Make(); });
```

```carbon
// In a variable:
let lambda: auto = fn -> T { return T.Make(); };
// Equivalent in C++23:
// const auto lambda = [] -> T { return T::Make(); };

// In a function call:

> PushBack(my_list, fn => T.Make());

Reviewer 2: This doesn't match the "In a variable" case above, and duplicates the previous example.
```suggestion
PushBack(my_list, fn -> T { return T.Make() });
```

// Equivalent in C++23:
// PushBack(my_list, [] { return T::Make(); });
```

```carbon
fn FunctionDeclaration => T.Make();
// Equivalent in C++23:
// auto FunctionDeclaration() { return T.Make(); }
```

```carbon
fn FunctionDeclaration -> T { return T.Make(); }
// Equivalent in C++23:
// auto FunctionDeclaration() -> T { return T::Make(); }
```

There are functions which return an expression, such that the return type is

> `auto`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Return type

There are three options for how a lambda expresses its return type, parallel to
[how function declarations express returns](functions.md#return-clause): using
a return expression, using an explicit return type, or having no return.

#### Return expression

A return expression is introduced with a double arrow (`=>`) followed by an
expression describing the function's return value. In this case, the return type is
determined by the type of thebexpression, as if the return type was `auto`.
```

```carbon
// In a variable:
let lambda: auto = fn => T.Make();
// Equivalent in C++23:
// const auto lambda = [] { return T::Make(); };

// In a function call:
Foo(fn => T.Make());
// Equivalent in C++23:
// Foo([] { return T::Make(); });
```

```carbon
fn FunctionDeclaration => T.Make();
// Equivalent in C++23:
// auto FunctionDeclaration() { return T::Make(); }

> ```

Reviewer 2: This is talking about a change to the functions design, which is in `functions.md`, and shouldn't be in `lambdas.md`.
```suggestion
```

And there are functions with an explicit return type that provide a body of

> statements.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Explicit return type

An explicit return type is introduced with a single arrow (`->`), followed by the
return type, and finally the body of the lambda with a sequence of statements
enclosed in curly braces (`{`...`}`).
```

```carbon
// In a variable:
let lambda: auto = fn -> T { return T.Make(); };
// Equivalent in C++23:
// const auto lambda = [] -> T { return T::Make(); };

// In a function call:
Foo(fn -> T { return T.Make(); })
// Equivalent in C++23:
// Foo([] -> T { return T::Make(); });
```

```carbon
fn FunctionDeclaration -> T { return T.Make(); }
// Equivalent in C++23:
// auto FunctionDeclaration() -> T { return T::Make(); }

> ```

Reviewer 2: This style of return I believe is already be covered by the existing function design.
```suggestion
```

> There are even functions that provide a body of statements but no return value.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### No return

Lambdas that don't return anything end with a body of statements in curly braces
(`{`...`}`). 
```

```carbon
// In a variable:
let lambda: auto = fn { Print(T.Make()); };
// Equivalent in C++23:
// const auto lambda = [] -> void { Print(T::Make()); };

// In a function call:
Foo(fn { Print(T.Make()); });
// Equivalent in C++23:
// Foo([] -> void { Print(T::Make()); });
```

```carbon
fn FunctionDeclaration { Print(T.Make()); }
// Equivalent in C++23:
// auto FunctionDeclaration() -> void { Print(T::Make()); }

> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Functions support [captures](#function-captures), [fields](#function-fields) and
deduced parameters in the square brackets. In addition, `self: Self` or
`addr self: Self*` can be added to the square brackets of function declarations

> that exist inside class or interface definitions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Implicit parameters in square brackets

Lambdas support [captures](#function-captures), [fields](#function-fields) and
deduced parameters in the square brackets.
```

This is the lambdas document, not the functions document. The lambdas proposal does make some changes to functions (and restates some things that were already in the design), but those changes should be made to `functions.md`.

```carbon
fn Foo(x: i32) {
  // In a variable:
  let lambda: auto = fn [var x, var y: i32 = 0] { Print(++x, ++y); };
  // Equivalent in C++23:
  // const auto lambda = [x, y = int32_t{0}] mutable -> void { Print(++x, ++y); };

  // In a function call:
  Foo(fn [var x, var y: i32 = 0] { Print(++x, ++y); });
  // Equivalent in C++23:
  // Foo([x, y = int32_t{0}] mutable -> void { Print(++x, ++y); });

  fn FunctionDeclaration[var x, var y: i32 = 0] { Print(++x, ++y); }
  // Equivalent in C++23:

>   // auto FunctionDeclaration = [x, y = int32_t{0}] mutable -> void { Print(++x, ++y); };

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

}
```

> Functions also support so-called

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Parameters

Lambdas also support so-called
```

["positional parameters"](#positional-parameters) that are defined at their
point of use using a dollar sign and a non-negative integer. They are implicitly
of type `auto`.

```carbon
fn Foo() {
  let lambda: auto = fn { Print($0); };
  // Equivalent in C++23:
  // auto lambda = [](auto _0, auto...) -> void { Print(_0); };
  // Equivalent in Swift:
  // let lambda = { Print($0) };

  fn FunctionDeclaration { Print($0); }
  // Equivalent in C++23:
  // auto FunctionDeclaration = [](auto _0, auto...) -> void { Print(_0); };
  // Equivalent in Swift:

>   // let FunctionDeclaration = { Print($0) };

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

}
```

> Of course, functions can also have named parameters, but a single function can't

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Of course, lambdas can also have named parameters, but a single lambda can't
```

have both named and positional parameters.

```carbon
fn Foo() {
  // In a variable:
  let lambda: auto = fn (v: auto) { Print(v); };
  // Equivalent in C++23:
  // const auto lambda = [](v: auto) -> void { Print(v); };

  // In a function call:
  Foo(fn (v: auto) { Print(v); });
  // Equivalent in C++23:
  // Foo([](v: auto) { Print(v); });

  fn FunctionDeclaration(v: auto) { Print(v); }
  // Equivalent in C++23:

>   // auto FunctionDeclaration(v: auto) -> void { Print(v); }

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

}
```

And in additional the option between positional and named parameters, deduced
parameters are always permitted.

```carbon
fn Foo() {
  let lambda: auto = fn [T:! Printable](t: T) { Print(t); };

>   fn FunctionDeclaration[T:! Printable](t: T) { Print(t); }

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

}
```

### Syntax Defined

> Function definitions and lambda expressions have one of the following syntactic

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Lambda expressions have one of the following syntactic
```

forms (where items in square brackets are optional and independent):

`fn` \[_name_\] \[_implicit-parameters_\] \[_tuple-pattern_\] `=>` _expression_

> \[`;`\]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`fn`\[_implicit-parameters_\] \[_tuple-pattern_\] `=>` _expression_
```

> `fn` \[_name_\] \[_implicit-parameters_\] \[_tuple-pattern_\] \[`->`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`fn` \[_implicit-parameters_\] \[_tuple-pattern_\] \[`->`
```

_return-type_\] `{` _statements_ `}`

> The first form is a shorthand for the second: "`=>` _expression_ `;`" is

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The first form is a shorthand for the second: "`=>` _expression_" is
```

equivalent to "`-> auto { return` _expression_ `; }`".

_implicit-parameters_ consists of square brackets enclosing a optional default
capture mode and any number of explicit captures, function fields, and deduced
parameters, all separated by commas. The default capture mode (if any) must come
first; the other items can appear in any order. If _implicit-parameters_ is
omitted, it is equivalent to `[]`.

> The presence of _name_ determines whether this is a function definition or a
> lambda expression. The trailing `;` in the first form is required for a function
> definition, but is not part of the syntax of a lambda expression.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Function definitions are distinguished from lambdas by the presence of a name
after the `fn` keyword.
```

|         B          |                                   [Default Capture Mode](#default-capture-mode)                                    |
|         C          | Explicit [Captures](#function-captures), [Function Fields](#function-fields) and Deduced Parameters (in any order) |
|         D          |                                                Explicit Parameters                                                 |
|         E1         |           Body of Statements (no return value) ([positional parameters](#positional-parameters) allowed)           |
|         E2         |          Body of Statements (with return value) ([positional parameters](#positional-parameters) allowed)          |
|         E3         |         Body of Statements (no return value) ([positional parameters](#positional-parameters) disallowed)          |
|         E4         |        Body of Statements (with return value) ([positional parameters](#positional-parameters) disallowed)         |
|         F          |                                                Required Return Type                                                |

> |         G          |                                             Function Declaration Name                                              |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

```carbon
// Lambdas (all the following are in an expression context and are
// themselves expressions)

fn => A1

fn [B, C] => A1

fn (D) => A2

fn [B, C](D) => A2

fn { E1; }

fn -> F { E2; }

fn [B, C] { E1; }

fn [B, C] -> F { E2; }

fn (D) { E3; }

fn (D) -> F { E4; }

fn [B, C](D) { E3; }

fn [B, C](D) -> F { E4; }
```

```carbon
// Function Declarations (all the following are allowed as statements in a
// function body or as declarations in other scopes)

fn G => A1;

fn G[B, C] => A1;

fn G(D) => A2;

fn G[B, C](D) => A2;

fn G { E1; }

fn G -> F { E2; }

fn G[B, C] { E1; }

fn G[B, C] -> F { E2; }

fn G(D) { E3; }

fn G(D) -> F { E4; }

fn G[B, C](D) { E3; }

fn G[B, C](D) -> F { E4; }
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> ## Introducer
> 
> **Proposal**: Introduce with the `fn` keyword to mirror function declarations.
> If a statement or declaration begins with `fn`, a name is required and it
> becomes a function declaration. Otherwise, if in an expression context, `fn`
> introduces a lambda.
> 
> ```carbon
> let lambda1: auto = fn => T.Make();
> 
> let lambda2: auto = fn -> T { return T.Make(); };
> 
> fn FunctionDeclaration1 => T.Make();
> 
> fn FunctionDeclaration2 -> T { return T.Make(); }
> ```

Reviewer 2: Already stated above.
```suggestion
```

> ## Positional Parameters

Reviewer 2: I left off here. Hopefully the above comments make it clear what changes would be good to make in the following.

This means that, if a function holds a by-object function field, if the type of
the field is copyable, so too is the function that contains it. This also
applies to captures.

The other case is by-value function fields. Since C++ const references, when
made into fields of a class, prevent the class from being copied assigned, so
too should by-value function fields prevent the function in which it is
contained from being copied assigned.

## Self and Recursion

**Proposal**: To mirror C++'s use of capturing `this`, `self` should always come
from the outer scope as a capture. `self: Self` is never permitted on lambdas.
For function declarations, it is only permitted when the function is a member of
a class type or an interface, such that it refers to the class/interface and not
to the function itself.

Note: Given the direction in
[#3720](https://github.com/carbon-language/carbon-lang/pull/3720), an expression
of the form `x.(F)`, where `F` is a function with a `self` or `addr self`
parameter, produces a callable that holds the value of `x`, and does not hold
the value of `F`. As a consequence, we can't support combining captures and

> function fields with a `self` parameter.

Reviewer 2: It is typical in our design docs to have an index of alternatives considered at the end.

Reviewer 2: This still seems to be missing. An example of how this is usually done is https://github.com/carbon-language/carbon-lang/blob/trunk/docs/design/assignment.md#alternatives-considered . In this case it might be something like:

```suggestion
function fields with a `self` parameter.

## Alternatives considered

- [Terse vs Elaborated](/proposals/p3848.md#alternative-considered-terse-vs-elaborated)
- [Sigil](/proposals/p3848.md#alternative-considered-sigil)
- [Additional Positional Parameter Restriction](/proposals/p3848.md#alternative-considered-additional-positional-parameter-restriction)
- [Recursive Self](/proposals/p3848.md#alternative-considered-recursive-self)
```

## Syntax Overview

> One goal of Carbon's lambda syntax is to have continuity between lambdas and function.

Reviewer 2: This will also need to be prettiered, see https://github.com/carbon-language/carbon-lang/blob/trunk/CONTRIBUTING.md#google-docs-and-markdown

```suggestion
One goal of Carbon's lambda syntax is to have continuity between lambdas and function declarations.
```

determined by the type of the expression, as if the return type was `auto`.

```carbon 
// In a variable:
let lambda: auto = fn => T.Make();
// Equivalent in C++23:
// const auto lambda = [] { return T::Make(); };

// As an argument to a function call:
Foo(fn => T.Make());
// Equivalent in C++23:
// Foo([] { return T::Make(); });
```

#### Explicit return type

An explicit return type is introduced with a single arrow (`->`), followed by the
return type, and finally the body of the lambda with a sequence of statements
enclosed in curly braces (`{`...`}`).

```carbon
// In a variable:
let lambda: auto = fn -> T { return T.Make(); };
// Equivalent in C++23:
// const auto lambda = [] -> T { return T::Make(); };

// As an argument to a function call:
Foo(fn -> T { return T.Make(); })
// Equivalent in C++23:
// Foo([] -> T { return T::Make(); });
```

#### No return

Lambdas that don't return anything end with a body of statements in curly braces
(`{`...`}`).

```carbon
// In a variable:
let lambda: auto = fn { Print(T.Make()); };
// Equivalent in C++23:
// const auto lambda = [] -> void { Print(T::Make()); };

> // As an argument in a function call:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
// As an argument to a function call:
```

  // Equivalent in C++23:
  // const auto lambda = [x, y = int32_t{0}] mutable -> void { Print(++x, ++y); };

>   // As an argument in a function calll:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  // As an argument to a function calll:
```

let lambda: auto = fn => { return $0 };
```

They can be used in any lambda declaration that lacks an explicit
parameter list (parentheses). They are variadic by design, meaning an unbounded
number of arguments can be passed to any function that lacks an explicit
parameter list. Only the parameters that are named in the body will be read
from, meaning the highest named parameter denotes the minimum number of
arguments required by the function. The lambda body is free to omit
lower-numbered parameters (ex: `fn { Print($10); }`).

This syntax was inpsired by Swift's
[Shorthand Argument Names](https://docs.swift.org/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-language/closures/#Shorthand-Argument-Names).

```carbon
// A lambda that takes two positional parameters being used as a comparator
Sort(my_list, fn => $0.val < $1.val);
// In Swift: { $0.val < $1.val }
```

### Positional Parameter Restrictions

There are two restrictions applied to functions with positional
parameters. The first restriction is that the function's definition must be 
attached to the declaration. The second restriction is that positional
parameters can only be used in a context where there is exactly

> one enclosing function that has no explicit parameter list. For example...

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Lambdas with positional parameters have the restriction that they
can only be used in a context where there is exactly one enclosing
function or lambda that has no explicit parameter list. For example:
```

```carbon
fn Foo1 {

>   let lambda: auto = fn => ( $0 < $1 ) // ✅ Valid: Foo1 has no parameter list

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  // ❌ Invalid: Foo1 is already using positional parameters
  let lambda: auto = fn => ( $0 < $1 )
```

}

fn Foo2 {
  my_list.Sort(

>     fn => { $0 < $1 }  // ❌ Invalid: Foo2 is already using positional parameters

Reviewer 2: Adding braces here is not valid. Braces are only used with `-> <return type>` not with the `=>` form.
```suggestion
    fn => $0 < $1  // ❌ Invalid: Foo2 is already using positional parameters
```

  );
}

fn Foo3() {
  my_list.Sort(

>     fn => { $0 < $1 }  // ✅ Valid: Foo3 has explicit parameters

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    fn => $0 < $1  // ✅ Valid: Foo3 has explicit parameters
```

  );

> }

Reviewer 2: Would be good to show examples of lambdas nested within lambdas, not just within functions.

```suggestion
}

fn Foo4() {
  let lambda: auto = fn -> bool {
    // ❌ Invalid: Outer lambda is already using positional parameters
    return (fn => $0 < $1)($0, $1);
  };
}

fn Foo5() {
  let lambda: auto = fn (x: i32, y: i32) -> bool {
    // ✅ Valid: Outer lambda has explicit parameters
    return (fn => $0 < $1)(x, y);
  };
}
```

```

> ## Lambda Captures

Reviewer 2: In the context of a the "Lambdas" document, this isn't needed.
```suggestion
## Captures
```

> Lambda captures in Carbon mirror the non-init captures of C++. A

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Captures in Carbon mirror the non-init captures of C++. A
```

### Capture Modes

Lambdas can capture variables from their surrounding scope using `let` or `var`,  

> just like regular bindings. These capture modes determine whether the lambda  
> sees a copy (`let`) or a mutable reference (`var`) to the captured variable.

Reviewer 2: Added text is inaccurate.

```suggestion
just like regular bindings.
```

> To avoid ambiguity, captures are only allowed when the lambda is **defined  
> inline**—within an expression or directly inside a function body. This means:
> 
> - ✅ Lambdas support captures.  
> - ✅ Nested lambdas defined inside a function body support captures.  
> - ❌ Lambdas or functions declared ahead of time (e.g., forward-declared)  
>   **cannot** use captures.  
> - ❌ Captures are not allowed in class member functions where `self: Self` is  
>   used.
> 
> You can use capture modes in two ways:  
> - As **default capture mode specifiers**  
> - For **explicit captures**, as shown in the example below:
> 
> ```carbon
> fn Foo() {
>   var counter: i32 = 0;
>   let printer = fn [let counter] { Print(counter); };
>   let incrementer = fn [var counter] { counter += 1; };
> }
> ```

Reviewer 2: Added text is inaccurate.

```suggestion
```

  var a: i32 = 0;
  var b: i32 = 0;

let lambda: auto = fn [a, var b] {

>   a += 1;  // ❌ Invalid: `a` is an immutable copy (default `let`)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  a += 1;  // ❌ Invalid: by-value captures are immutable (default `let`)
```

}
```

> Note: If a function object F has mutable state (via by-object captures or
> mutable fields), calling F requires a mutable reference. This ensures the
> function has access to its internal state for mutation.

Reviewer 2: Original text was fine, change refers to "mutable reference" which is a Rust concept, not a Carbon concept.
```suggestion
Note: If a function object F has mutable state, either because it has a
by-object capture or because it has a by-object function field, then a call to F
should require the callee to be a reference expression rather than a value
expression. We need a mutable handle to the function in order to be able to
mutate its mutable state.
```

## Self and Recursion

To mirror C++'s use of capturing `this`, `self` should always come
from the outer scope as a capture. `self: Self` is never permitted on lambdas.

```carbon

> fn = [self: Self] { return self.F(); };  // ❌ Not allowed

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
// ❌ Not allowed
let lambda: auto = fn [self: Self] { self.F(); };
```

> fn = [self] { return self.F(); };  // ✅ Only if self came from outside

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
// ✅ Captures `self` from outer scope
let lambda: auto = fn [self] { self.F(); };
```

```

> Note: Given the direction in

Reviewer 2: #3720 is now merged, so:

```suggestion
Note: Following
```
